---
title: CoinGecko's Interview Process for Level 1 to Level 3
date: 2023-06-24
tags: [interviews]
---

I've been talking to a prospective candidate who has been inquiring about the
best way to prepare for the interview. I was surprised to see that his first
email was sent in May 2022. His most recent question pertained to the interview
process, and this was my response (with some additions):

Disclaimer: Much of this work is handled by our Engineering Manager and HR
department as they are the leads in this process. My response is based on what
I recall.

Our interview format varies depending on the level of the position.
Occasionally, we may modify the process to suit a particular candidate, though
this is rare.

Generally, there are there four stages:

1. Discovery call
2. Skills Assessment
3. First Interview
4. Second Interview

To keep things simple, let's outline the procedure for Level 1 to Level 3
positions. Please note that this is based on my recollection and there may be
slight inaccuracies:

1. Apply through jobs.lever.co/coingecko

    We'll ask you a series of questions, including some technical ones to gauge
    your basic knowledge of web development. It's not uncommon for candidates
    to be disqualified at this stage, so be sure to answer each question
    thoroughly. If you don't know the answer, invest some time in research
    instead of responding, "I don't know." Your efforts here could make all the
    difference.

2. An HR representative will call you to ask a few general questions and get to
   know you better. We call this discovery call and I've seen the Engineer
Manager (EM) call the candidate instead of the HR. This is more on get to know
you better.

3. Based on your application and HR interview, our Head of Engineering will
   decide whether to proceed with an assignment. At times, other engineers may
also provide feedback. If these engineers become involved, they'll typically
stay on your panel throughout the interview stages.

    If approved, you'll be assigned a task to complete within two weeks. I
    cannot emphasize enough the importance of doing well on this assignment.

4. After submitting your assignment, we'll review it and note our feedback
   internally to prepare for a video interview. Given the effort candidates put
into this stage, we rarely reject anyone here.

5. The video call will involve discussing your assignment and answering
   numerous technical questions. Usually, the panel will consist of four
engineers, including the Head of Engineering, one Lead/Principal, and two
Engineers of varying levels.

    This interview will last about two hours. The first hour will focus on your
    assignment and technical knowledge, while the next 45 minutes will delve
    into your current work and past experiences. You'll have an opportunity to
    ask us any questions in the final 15 minutes. Live coding will not be
    required.

6. After the interview, we'll debrief and make a decision based on our
   established guidelines. The possible outcomes are: 1) Strong no hire 2) No
hire 3) Hire 4) Strong hire. As you can see, the decision is binary; we either
proceed or we don't. If we decide to hire you, we'll also discuss some of the
onboarding plans and which team you will be in.

7. Should we decide to proceed, you'll engage in a conversation with one of our
   founders. This stage will not involve any technical questions. From my
experience, there has been only one instance where a candidate was rejected at
this juncture, making it a rare occurrence.

8. Once he gives the go-ahead, HR will conduct their due diligence, such as
   reference checks. After these are completed, you'll receive your offer
letter.

By the way, all proceedings are documented in our Lever application. Thus, once
onboard, the candidate can access all previous feedback.
